# AsyncAPI Events 2021

This is a proposal document for a Hackathon and Conference for AsyncAPI Initiative in 2021.

This is a proposal, nothing written in stone, please participate in discussion, suggest changes or additions. What is missing? what we can improve?

## Month-long Hackathon

### Date: 1-31 October

### Purpose

Embrace even more how important spec tooling is. Get ideas on how current tools can be used or extended and also what new tools we could maintain at AsyncAPI Initiative. 

### Details

The event run throughout the entire month. Anyone can participate, no need to register. It is up to participants how much time they spend on it and when. Hashtag could be #asyncapihack

### Things we need to organize

- website
- set up a way for participants to let us know what they completed during the hackathon.
  - an issue in `community` repo that would follow some specific template (labels, and all that stuff). Maybe we should finally enable `discussions` tab there.
- invite some community members to form a group of judges that selects the best idea 
- event marketing (lead @Barbanio)
- organize swags (lead @Barbanio)
- prizes for winners
- drop potential ideas into `community` repo so others that want to participate but have no ideas, can pick it up


## 3 Days Conference

### Date: 16-18 November

### Purpose

Gather community in a single event so they can connect with each other, exchange ideas and learn.

### Details

- It is an online event, not onsite. Even though many countries has a better Covid situation, vaccination process is advanced, it is not like that everywhere. We should respect that not all community members are in a stable situation and not do an even where half of community is excluded and can participate only online.
- It is a 3 days, Tuesday - Thursday event
- IT IS FREE
- no registration needed, but could be enabled just to get emails that we can notify about the event, kinda remind
- we do our best to do the event for as many timezones as possible
- start 10AM UTC - 1PM UTC (3h) then 2h break and 3PM UTC - 6PM UTC (3h). Also depends on the proposals we get, were presenters will be from.
- 1st day would be
  - hackathon summary and maybe presentations of winner ideas?
  - short sessions/presentations by community members on their tips and tricks. How they work with AsyncAPI, what they do on CI, how they automate. How they use tools, how they structure AsyncAPI documents
- 2nd and 3rd day is regular talks. Priority for presenters like eBay or Bank of New Zeland that are not vendors, but represent companies that actually use the spec on production and how they do it.
- #asyncapiconf as last year
- Talks are prerecorded and speakers must be avaialble during the talk in the chat for questions. It worked well last time and I think we should follow this.

### Things we need to organize

- website ([old website](https://www.asyncapiconf.com/))
- swags (lead @Barbanio)
- marketing (lead @Barbanio)
- streaming like last time? or hoppin? what is your experience? you like those?
- setup a way people can set reminders
- invite community members to for a group of people that select what proposals could get into the schedule
- explore Linux Foundation tooling, how much does it cost and if we need it
- check out with LF if we need official blessing for event under AsyncAPI Initiative official branding
- how we collect proposals

## Sponsors

Yes, we need sponsors as we had [last year](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi/events/asyncapi-online-conference-fd574661). We need someone to sponsor all these activities, swags and prices. And I assume that like last year we want to spend everything mainly on community and marketing (indirectly community).

We had:
- Platinum - 600$
- Golden - 300$ ?
- Silver - don't remember 

We should at least double those. And clearly specify what they get in exchange. I think we prooved to community and sponsors that money invested in the event are all invested in the AsyncAPI community.
